Add philanthropic fundraising (#672)
publiccodenet/about: activities/philanthropic-fundraising/ANBI.md

---
type: Guide
---

# How to donate in the Netherlands to a Public Benefit Organization (ANBI)

> You may deduct a donation to an ANBI (public benefit organization) in your income tax return. However, the conditions are different for a periodic gift and an ordinairy gift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may deduct a donation to an ANBI (public benefit organization) in your income tax return. However, the conditions are different for a periodic gift and an ordinary gift.
```

## Periodic donation

Your donation is a periodic donation if it meets the following 3 conditions:

> 

Reviewer: - does it need to meet 1 of the following 3 conditions, or all of them? 
- use numbers for sequential steps. If the list is unordered, use bullets.

Reviewer: Ditto for the list below.

1. You give the same amount annually to the same institution or association. You may decide for yourself whether you pay your annual donation in one go, or in instances.
2. You pay the amount 5 years in a row. Longer is also allowed.
3. You have determined when your annual donation stops. For example, after 5 years, or when you pass away.

> ## Ordinairy donation

Reviewer: typo!
```suggestion
## Ordinary donation
```

An ordinary donation is a donation you only make once, or a donation that you make annually, but have not documented in an agreement. You may deduct your ordinary donation if it meets the following conditions:

1. Your donation will go to an ANBI (public benefit organization).
2. Your donation is voluntary. 
3. You get nothing in exchange for your donation. 
4. You can prove that you have made the gift. This can be seen, for example, from the withdrawals from your account.

> [Information on tax-deductability](https://www.belastingdienst.nl/wps/wcm/connect/nl/aftrek-en-kortingen/content/gift-aftrekken) for donations from the Dutch tax office (in Dutch).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Read more about tax deductibility](https://www.belastingdienst.nl/wps/wcm/connect/nl/aftrek-en-kortingen/content/gift-aftrekken) for donations from the Dutch tax office (in Dutch).
```

Reviewer: "deductibility" is still spelled wrong both times.
